# BREATHE

README
Project Name:
Breathe
Project Description: what is the project, what is the overall concept and theme, and what kind of experience you were striving to create.
For the sound project, we chose to script and record a meditation. The concept of the audio was to use outdoor water sounds and instrumental music tones to create a full and immersive environment while using slow self-recorded audio as the meditation. In building a website to house our project, we chose to draw thematic inspiration from the well established visual and audio iconography of meditation and restorative spa spaces which includes flower imagery and sleek, minimalist design. We were striving to create a relaxing experience which necessitated the creation of a low-distraction, easy-to-use site with strong continuity.  

Process: How did you go about implementing the concept? Describe your role and what your contribution was.
Website Design: The first step in the process was deciding on the design of the website. Because this is a meditation (and a project that we personally rebranded as an immersive sound experience) we wanted to simplify the experience as possible. Through our goal of simplicity, we decided to limit the number of user interactions and focused the screen space on prompts which are intended to further support the audio direction and website atmosphere across both website pages.
One of our limited user interactions includes a button for “light/dark mode” which changes the website's color scheme--an accommodation we included when considering that some users will experience our site in a dark room or space. Furthermore, we chose to implement a two-toned color scheme which includes purple, a color symbolic of spirituality and wisdom, and blue, a color linked with the meanings of calm and stability. The website landing page otherwise was limited to a 2D icon, a short intro text which has the same spirit as our audio, and a button to move to the internal page. On the audio page, we limited the interaction and screen use options because we want the user to be focused on the audio experience (and ideally follow along with their eyes closed). For accessibility purposes we included an audio progression bar, a volume control, and start/stop buttons. Otherwise the page includes a bubble transformation which continuously moves in and out--this was designed to visually and simply replicate the feeling of breathing in and out.
Audio Design: For the landing page, we discussed background audio options, but ultimately decided against such an experience. To keep a strong website identity we wanted to make the time spent on that page express and ultimately avoid any excessive user actions. Our internal audio meditation pulled from three different types of meditative practices which include a three-count adaptation of anxiety relieving breathing exercises, self affirmations, and tension releasing exercises through body presence. Within the track we mixed in breathing sounds to emphasize the breathing prompts in the voice over and replicate the feeling of the circle animation on screen. We also included a background audio which has both outdoor water sounds and instrumental music playing. We wanted to envelop the listener in our experience and part of that is having these sounds that recall nature and evoke a more peaceful mood. Most importantly for our audio we worked on keeping the sound consistent. Meditations are not supposed to have any big changes in sound so we used that to our advantage in the intro and outro of our soundtrack. You will notice that the sound fades in at the beginning of the track and takes a moment before the voice over comes in. We do this to establish an audio context and give time to the listener to adjust to the audio. Conversely, at the end of the meditation track we let the background fade out as the voiceover fades in more clearly. We use this audio coordination to signal to the listener that the experience is over and they may open their eyes if closed.  
Code: With the intention of keeping the visuals minimalistic and peaceful, our code was somewhat simple too. The main page of the website has a paragraph with two buttons and an SVG image. One of the buttons on the main page is linked to another html file. That second html file has the audio embedded in with the progress bar and two buttons. On both the main and second page, one of the buttons controls the “ dark/ light” mode. The second page also includes a button that takes you back to the main/ home page. In terms of styling, we wanted to create specific edits to the body of each page. Therefore we included a “ <style>” on to the html, separate from the body tag in css. That way we can uniquely customize each body as we wish. The script had two parts , one for the dark more function and the next was calculations for the progress bar. The progress bar acquired the most amount of calculations. We all were able to collectively build this on a site called replit, where we coded simultaneously.
Team: Because we had a short time to get this project turned out we prioritized meeting as a group to work on different sections of the project. Most parts of this project had two or more of us actively working on it at any given point. We also used replit as our choice of coding hub so it was often that one member would start in on coding a section and someone else would further it when they had time. We worked on this project pretty homogeneously, but we made sure that at least some part of each section was touched by each team member.  

Reflection/Evaluation: This should bookend the initial concept and talk about whether your expectations and goals were met in the process of building the final working version.
Our team went through several iterations and semi-executed ideas of how the website should look/function before settling on what is our final project. When thinking about our expectations, goals, and then what is…we definitely came very close to our original concept. Our goal was to be simplistic and to create an experience that immediately feels like it belongs within the genre of meditation. With a minimal look and feel it meant that we had to more closely consider the details of each interaction which we did through the design, audio, and coding phases of this project. We only had to make one compromise in terms of our project which occurred on the internal audio page. The vision was to trigger multiple text prompt events on the screen as they corresponded with a specific time code. With the time crunch we were only able to get halfway through the process of making that happen. What we did on that front is commented out of our code, but if you get a chance to see it we would love to know how to finish solving the problem. Otherwise, we are super proud of what we have done and what we have to show for this assignment.
